In this video we are gonna go through and do a code review of the assignment and that assignment was
to add spring rest docs to the given project.
So up here on the screen I have my implementation.
Good to see the highlighting I have not committed this to get up but I will be committing it to get
hub under the branch.
Docs dash ample and let's go through this.
The first thing I did as I went in and started adding and the Maven dependency so I am bringing this
up here.
When I point out online forty eight the project was using J four so I wanted to switch over to J unit
five.
That's what I did here.
So you can see in fifty two I'm excluding J unit and then on fifty nine I'm bringing in the J unit five
dependencies and you can see that the version there is not needed because this is a curated version
from the Spring Boot parent palm and then on line seventy five or seventy four I should say that is
where I'm bringing in the dependency for spring rest docs and again that is a curated dependency we
don't need to bring in that version no explicitly.
Now scroll up a little bit then on line 1 0 9 bringing in the ASCII Doctor maven plugin.
This is the plugin that is going to be assembling all the ASCII doctor stuff.
The dependency there on line one twenty six this is needed for rest docs and highly recommended to do
this spring rest docs version.
So that is a curated version property from the Spring Boot parent which will keep things in sync between
the version that you're using of the jar that's being brought in to the jar that's being brought in
for the ASCII Doctor plugin.
Now line 1 34.
This is the resources plug in this is a standard maven plugin.
This is the build plug and then it's going to copy the completed documentation on over to the target
directory that's gonna get ultimately built in to a jar file or deployment so it will copy over that
index HDMI all file into a static docs directory which will bring up the documentation for you when
you go to Spring Boot static slash stocks wherever the Spring Boot has deployed.
So setting everything up so that Spring Boot will have the documentation.
Now next thing we need to do is add in a directory for ASCII Doc and this index ASCII doc.
So this looks pretty familiar from what we did previously in the core some kind of following along with
that very similar snippets very similar capabilities.
You can customize this all you want.
There's a lot of customization capabilities to ask you to.
I'm not going down that rabbit hole.
We could spend hours on customizing as ask Doc probably not going down that road but this is a very
robust tool that we have to use.
I'm just showing you my primary thing is to show you how it takes us snippets assemble some together
into a final document.
Now the next thing we want to take a look at is the bigger controller.
So you actually get really to imports now very very very important but something you forgot to do this
online 32.
You need to change that static import over to the rest.
Documentation builders.
So that's what's going to control the.
The spring Mark MVC.
So very important stuff.
Very easy one to forget.
I actually forgot it when I went through it the first time and had to go back and add it now online
35 extend what we need that extend with Russ documentation extension that is a J.
Unit 5 extension which helps us run the documentation and the rest Doc documentation and then 36 because
we are injecting the mock MVC we are asking the mock MVC test that is a spring boot test place.
We need that annotation the auto configure rest docs.
I'm not overwriting any of the defaults so this is going to come up to a [REMOVED] local host and port
88.
And of course I could override those as I showed you previously in the course and you can see it scroll
up a little bit here and see that before each.
That was a change from J up for to J you know five and then the test here.
We did have to change.
Remember you have to change this parameter to include the path parameter like so.
And then we went into the documentation so the request is in very very somewhere.
The object is very similar.
There's a few differences in property so you weren't able to do a complete cut and paste.
So that would have been some problems so if you did do that.
One other thing that I added as I added in this type so this is declaring the type.
So these were coming up normal in the documentation like so I'll show you the general documentation
here in a second and then that handles the beer
the sandals the post the beer the new beer.
So that is going to be the beer new documentation so we have the beer get the beer.
New and again very very similar except on the new.
You can see that I'm adding the ignored properties on these top three lines so those are not going to
be set by the client but the client will be sending beer name beer style and neat UPC of the beer.
I did not document handle update.
That is up to you if you'd like to do that.
And it's going to be very similar to everything else.
And then here's my static class my private static class that is going to give us this functionality
to document the constraints.
So that's where we're going to get the constraint documentation that is going to be a reflection from
the.
Being validation.
And let's jump over to Chrome and I'll show you the final resulting documentation so you can see here.
I've got the documentation scroll up a little bit and that type property that's what setting this here.
So previously that was normal.
There are some different strategies to setting that lets you explore that on the documentation it's
okay.
But the problem here is you need to set the type.
And sometimes it's a little difficult because you want to set a Java type or a javascript type and in
Jason I actually do not have an off site date and time actually don't have a date.
It's just a string property.
So some things that you need to do there.
As far as a format there's other API documentation tools such as Open API that has a lot more robust
functionality around describing data properties.
Also you can see here this table here that also changed a little bit so you can see that it does not
have all the properties ignore properties are not displayed toggle back over to intelligent this code.
I will check in on a separate branch again and it's going to be on the rest docs branch.
You avail to check this out and do a diff.
Like I said at the beginning how they recommend you fork the original property work off of master and
then you'll be able to do diff between the different branches to see if you missed anything.
Number of things that you had to put in place here to get all this functionality.
So hopefully this is a good exercise in gains value out of it.
And now you are quote unquote experts with spring rust stocks.